Work is a gift from God.
And his inspired Word tells us
to be balanced in our view of work.
However, the world
teaches extreme views of work
that are contrary to God’s view.
Some have the view that work
should be avoided at all costs,
and they work hard at not working.
Others have the view
that the more you work,
the happier you will be.
As you watch
the following dramatization,
notice how our brother’s emphasis
on secular work actually robs him of joy.
The company took on new clients this year,
and I knew that Victor
was really depending on me
to keep things on schedule.
I didn’t want to let him down,
so I stepped up
and took on the overtime hours.
I figured it was temporary,
and I even got to take home
a bigger paycheck.
The problem is
that that’s not all I took home.
By the end of each week, I was burned-out.
And the weekends
—well,
they weren’t really any better.
In fact, I spent a lot
of Saturdays back at the office.
The project took a lot longer than I thought.
That pretty much took out field service
and the meetings.
But I knew that management
would be impressed.
That machine is essential
so that I can get the parts out.
I got the reports in right on time.
Look!
This is costing a lot of money.
I have a first quarter that I have to meet,
and without this,
it’s going to—it’s going to kill me.
You know we had a contract
that you’re supposed to—
Like I said,
I don’t care about your third-party vendors.
This is unacceptable.
I was working harder than ever,
and in the end,
I’m not sure anyone even cared.
We know that being industrious
and working hard is good.
But what did our brother
in the video experience
when he adopted
the world’s extreme view of work?
Did it make him happier?
If we put secular work
above everything else,
we could lose out
on needed rest and spiritual pursuits.
Our brother in the video
sacrificed precious time with his family
and activity with the congregation
because he did not have
a balanced view of secular work.
Read with me
what Ecclesiastes 4:6
indicates about being balanced
—Ecclesiastes 4:6:
“Better is a handful of rest
“than two handfuls of hard work
[and notice what it adds]
and chasing after the wind.”
“Chasing after the wind”
is an exercise in futility.
You can’t catch the wind
and hold on to it.
A person who is a workaholic
may never enjoy the fruitage of his labor
if his work consumes
all his time and energy.
His work can become as pointless
as “chasing after the wind.”
We accept with joy our obligation
to provide for ourselves
and those who depend on us.
But we also need to remember
that there is more to life than work.
Jehovah gives us
the instructions we need
to have a balanced life
and have a proper view of work.
For example, the Bible encourages us
to work hard at what we do
to make a living,
and meaningful secular work
can bring us joy
and a feeling of accomplishment.
Whatever we do, we want to do it well.
Also, as Ephesians 4:28 says,
“doing good work” allows us
to “have something to share
with someone in need.”
But we are advised in Scripture
to “make sure
of the more important things.”
And the most important work we can do
is stated clearly at 1 Corinthians 15:58.
Please read with me
1 Corinthians 15:58:
“Therefore, my beloved brothers,
“be steadfast, immovable,
“always having plenty to do
in the work of the Lord,
“knowing that your labor is not in vain
in connection with the Lord.”
“Having plenty to do in the work
of the Lord”
is good for us,
and it is pleasing to Jehovah.
As you watch
the following dramatization,
see how our brother benefits
from working hard
at his secular job
and in spiritual pursuits.
It had been a busy week,
but the weekend was going to be even busier
and better!
But first, I needed to make
an important stop.
Oh, it’s Ben.
Come in!
Oh, it’s so good to see you.
You too.
Hey, John,
how are you feeling?
Ben, how are you doing?
Good.
Well, I’m so glad . . .
This illness had been so hard
on John and Sandy.
I couldn’t even imagine
what they were going through.
It was so encouraging
to see John’s positive attitude.
The next day,
we had a fantastic conversation
in the ministry.
Then Tom and I
finally figured out that glitch
in the A/V system.
OK, Tom, go ahead and hit play.
It’s playing.
OK.
All right!
Yes!
Whew!
Everything looked and sounded great!
We definitely were busy
but in the best way possible,
doing things that really mattered
and for people who love Jehovah.
We saw a balanced
and joyful man in that video.
Our brother worked hard
at his secular job
because it allowed him to provide
for his family’s physical needs.
Did you notice in the video
that the brother had a picture
of his family at his workplace?
It was a nice reminder
of one of the reasons
why he was working hard.
True, it may be that you work at a job
you don’t particularly enjoy doing.
Nevertheless, you
work hard and give it your best
because you’re doing it
for your family and for Jehovah.
And when you do your job well,
the truth is that
you can find pleasure in it
or at least in what it provides.
Doing “the work of the Lord”
includes work that we do
on behalf of the congregation.
We experience the greater happiness
that comes from giving,
as stated at Acts 20:35.
Did our brother in the video
that we just observed
give of himself to the congregation?
Yes, he did.
He took the time
to visit a brother in the hospital,
and we know
that such visits are truly appreciated.
He participated in the ministry
to spread the good news
of the Kingdom.
He helped out at the Kingdom Hall
to get the audio/video setup working.
Like him, we make ourselves available
for whatever has to be done
to care for Kingdom interests.
At the end of the day,
our brother was with his family
and friends—probably very tired.
But it was a good tired.
He was enjoying a period
of relaxation and personal satisfaction.
Yes, all of his hard work
brought him genuine happiness.
Truly, as Jehovah’s servants,
all of us want to be busy
in the best ways possible.
Jehovah created us
to enjoy both work and leisure,
as stated at Ecclesiastes 3:13:
“That everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
Keep your life balanced,
and you will enjoy
all of the work you do even more.
Please listen as Brother James Mantz,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
now considers
the final talk of this symposium,
“What Contributes to Joy?
—True Friendships.”